# Instagram Data Extraction and Analysis

Welcome to the Instagram Data Extraction and Analysis project, hosted by Fedi Aniefuna. This project contains scripts for extracting data from Instagram and processing this data into a usable format.

## Files

The main scripts in this project are located in the `src/` directory:

- `login_script.py`: This script should be run first. It imports a session cookie from a Firefox browser that's logged into Instagram. Using this cookie, it creates a session file, allowing other scripts to interact with Instagram as a logged-in user. The script takes optional command-line arguments for specifying the location of the Firefox cookie file and the name/location of the session file.

- `csv_creater.py`: This script creates a summary Excel file from a series of text files. It reads files in a specified directory, extracting information about posts such as date, caption, likes, comment count, and comments, and writes this information to an Excel file.

- `post_scraper.py`: This script uses the Instaloader library to scrape posts from a specified Instagram profile. For each post, it downloads the post itself and creates a text file containing the post's like count, comment count, and comments.

- `story_scraper.py`: This script uses the Instaloader library to scrape stories from a specified Instagram profile. It downloads each story and saves it to a directory named after the profile, under a subdirectory named 'stories'.

- `highlight_scraper.py`: This script uses the Instaloader library to scrape highlight stories from a specified Instagram profile. It downloads each highlight and saves it to a directory named after the profile, under a subdirectory named 'highlights'.

## Getting Started

These instructions will help you set up the project on your local machine.

### Prerequisites

You'll need the following:

- Python 3.6 or higher
- Firefox browser, logged into Instagram

### Installing

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Navigate to the project's directory.
3. Run the following command to install the necessary Python libraries:

   ```bash
   pip3 install -r requirements.txt

### Note:

If you do not want to install these requirements to your local machine gloably, you can set up a vitrual environment by running:
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
```
And then activating it via the following command(s):

On macOS and Linux:
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```
On Windows:
```bash
.\venv\Scripts\activate
```







### Running the Scripts

You should run `login_script.py` first to set up your Instagram session. After that, you can run the other scripts as needed. Each script prompts you for the necessary information.


Remember to replace `<script_name.py>` with the name of the script you're running:
```bash
    python src/<script_name.py>
```
### `login_script.py`

When running this script, it will ask you for the necessary input to create a session file from your Instagram login in Firefox. It can automatically find the Firefox cookies file, but you can specify the path with the `-c` option. You can also specify the location and name of the session file with the `-f` option.

After you run `login_script.py`, you can run any of the following scripts:

### `csv_creater.py`

This script generates an Excel spreadsheet from text files in a directory. When you run the script, it will prompt you for the path to the directory. Make sure to use the same directory throughout all scripts as this will contain all the saved data.

### `post_scraper.py`

This script scrapes posts from an Instagram profile. When you run the script, it will ask you for your Instagram username and the username of the profile you want to scrape. It will also ask for the path to the profile directory where the post will be saved which is going to be titled by the instagram username. This will be automatically generated by the script but you need to enter this before hand when prompter. The path should be something similar to the following path:
```bash
~/INSTASCRAPER-PC/{username}
```
### Note: 
The path above may have more directories inbtween the root directory `~` and the github repository directory  `INSTASCRAPER-PC`. For best practice, you should keep all the saved profile folders within a single directory.

### `story_scraper.py`

This script scrapes stories from an Instagram profile. When you run the script, it will ask you for your Instagram username and the username of the profile you want to scrape.

### `highlight_scraper.py`

This script scrapes highlight stories from an Instagram profile. When you run the script, it will ask you for your Instagram username and the username of the profile you want to scrape.

## Libraries Used

- Instaloader
- openpyxl

## Author Contact Info 

 - Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/fedi-aniefuna-a78a67242/
 - Email: fedianiefuna@gmail.com

Feel free to modify and adapt the scripts according to your specific needs and feel free to reach out in case any bugs are needed. Enjoy!


    


